# Event structure representation in the human brain during perception and imagery of music

## Introduction

A recent fMRI study found that the human auditory cortex (AC) represents both low-level and high-level event structures when listening to music (Williams et al., 2021). In this notebook, I will attempt to replicate these results using a different dataset, and test the new hypothesis that the representation of high-level event structure increases in the AC during imagery of music, compared to music perception. This exploration will focus on a set of cortical regions that have been used to demonstrate the previous findings during perception, including the precuneus, angular gyrus, and early and late auditory cortices. I will also treat these regions separately across the hemispheres, with the prediction for a stronger effect in the right AC.

Following Williams et al. (2021), I will be using a Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM) analysis, which assumes that the time series of BOLD activity was generated by the participant’s brain progressing through a sequence of states, where each state corresponds to a spatial pattern of BOLD activity (Baldassano et al., 2017). Intuitively, when we do HMM analysis,  we are trying to identify when the brain has transitioned from one hidden state to another, by looking at the BOLD time series and estimating when the spatial pattern has switched. By fitting HMM with different numbers of hidden states, we can determine how many states a brain region traverses and identify when the transitions occur. 

Here I will apply the HMM to fMRI data from the brains of 25 participants who listened and imagined six melodies. The raw BOLD signals were preprocessed and reduced into time series from 400 cortical parcels (Schaefer et al., 2018). For more information about the experimental procedure and steps of preprocessing see Regev et al., 2021. This research project is in preparation for publication and therefore the data is not presently available. 


## References:
* Williams J A, Margulis E H, Nastase S A, Chen J, Hasson U, Norman K A, Baldassano C (2021). High-order areas and auditory cortex both represent the high-level event structure of music. bioRxiv,  https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.01.26.428291 
* Baldassano C, Chen J, Zadbood A, Pillow J W, Hasson U, Norman K A (2017). Discovering event structure in continuous narrative perception and memory. Neuron 95: 709-721.
* Schaefer A, Kong R, Gordon E M, Laumann T O, Zuo X-N, Holmes A J, 
Eickhoff S B, Yeo B T T (2018). Local-global Parcellation of the human cerebral cortex from intrinsic functional connectivity MRI. Cereb Cortex, 28:3095–3114.
* Regev M, Halpern A R, Owen A M, Patel A D, Zatorre R J (2021). Mapping specific mental content during musical imagery. Cereb Cortex, https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhab036 				
